System Catalog:
The system tables that  SQL   server needs to configure and manage itself are collectively grouped together and called the “System Catalog”. The system catalog consists  primary of the system tables contained in the master table.
 
Database Catalog
The system tables that are needed to define the structure of a new user database are collectively known as the “Database Catalog”. The database catalog consists primarily system tables contained in the model database.
The various system tables in all the SQL Server system databases are discussed  below as follows: 

Some MASTER system Tables
Syslockinfo - Contains information on all granted, converting, and waiting lock requests.
Syscacheobjects - Contains information about how the cache is used.
Syslogins - Contains one row for each login account.
Sysdatabases - Contains one row for each database on SQL server 2008.
Model System Tables
Name			Utility
Syscolumns	     Contains one row for every column in every table and  		     view, and a row for each parameter in a stored procedure.
Syscomments	     Contains entries for each view, rule, default, trigger, 		     CHECK constraint , DEFAULT constraint , and stored 		     procedure.
Sysfiles	     Contains one row for each file in a database
Sysindexes	     Contains one row for each index and table in the database
Sysobjects	     Contains one rows for each object (Constraint , default, 		     log, rule, stored procedure, and so on ) created within a 		     database. Syscomments and Sysobjects, combined 		     together, give detailed information on ny object in SQL 		     Server.
Syspermissions    Contains information about permissions granted and denied to     
                                users , groups and roles in the database.
Systypes	      Contains one row for each system-supplied and each user-defined 
                                data  type
Sysusers	      Contains one row for each windows user, windows group, SQL 
                                server  user, or SQL Server  role in the database
MSDB System Tables
Name			Utility
Sysalerts	      Contains one row for each alert. An alert is a message sent in 
                                 response to an event.
Syscategories	      Contains the categories used by SQL Server Enterprise Manager  
                                 to organize jobs, alerts, and operators.
Sysobs	       Stores the information for each scheduled job to be executed by 
                                 the SQL Server Agent
Sysoperators	       Contains one row for each SQL Server operator.
Sysnotification	       Contains one row for each notification to an operator
  
TEMPDB System  Tables
Name			Utility
Local Temporary tables	These tables are only visible to the user who have 		created these and are prefaced with a single hash 		(#) sign.
Global Temporary tables	These tables are available to all the users that are 		connected and are prefaced with two-hash 			signs(##). 


